# Final Assessment

## Part A- Individual Contribution, Skills Aplied/Built Upon, Success and Obstacles
Being the only person on my team, I worked on this project start to end. This means that I was responsible for all phases of this project, starting from Prelimnary Research to Documentation and including Secondary Research, Protyping and Designing, Development, Testing and Verification, validation and Deployment, and Support for Additional Features. The skills developed in the past both during class and through co-ops proved ot be immensely helpful in completing this project. Courses suck as **CS 5154:** Information Retrierval, and **CS 5152:** Intelligent Data Systems gave me a greater understaing of how information retrieval systems are implemented and how various measures of similarity are calcuated as well as the use cases for each method. Some of the discussions in this classes layed the foundation for addional research later in project as well (cosine similarity versus distance based measures - euclidean, mahalanobis, etc., bag-of-words-model, K-means and similar models, dealing with high-dimensional data). My co-op experiences were particularly useful in planning a complete, start-to-finish, software development plan as well as dealing with obstacles- switching the ionic app with a lightweight flask application to tackle time constraints.   
   
This project was a great learning experience for me in a lot of ways. While doing the entire project by myself was evidently a formidable challenge, it gave me the opportunity to control and develop something entirely according to how I choose. I decided to take risks by trying to develop an Ionic application (something that I have never worked with). Although, I had to switch to a Flask Web-application to focus more on the reccomendation system as well as deal with personal challenges, I gained valuable insight on mobile app development using Ionic. Furhtermore, I learned about measures of similarity beyond what was taght in class (Example: rbf (Radial Basis Function). I also learned about various clasification/clustering algorithms such as DBSCAN/HDBSCAN and Agglomerative Clustering. I experienced first-hand, the challenges of clustering high-dimensional data as well as the importance of dimensionality reduction.   
    
## Part B- Group Accompishments, On Group Work, Teamwork, and Special Recognition
This project was able to produce the following results- successful implementation of a flask application, effective music discovery system based on a variety of parameters, including artist, year, and song title. Search results produce at least 10 songs/query on average with at least 70 % median accuracy and takes about 0.092 seconds/query. As menitioned before, I worked on this project entirely by myself, which makes it difficult to comment in the context of grup work specific to this project. However, in my previous experiences with group work, I had learnt that effective communication, collaboration, and careful delegation of tasks are crucial for a success. Establishing clear goals, timelines, and expectations is key for completing tasks in time and dealing with obstacles. Working on my own, also made me see the merits of being in a team, how divide-and-conquer strategies are particualry useful in work-satisfaction as well as completion of tasks. It made me appreciate the diversity of ideas brought about by the presence of mutiple team-members and see the value of collaborative work.   
  
Since I worked on this project alone, there were no other team members to recognize. However, I would like to recognize my instructors and mentors who taught me the valuable skills that enabled me to achieve what I could through this project. I would also like to recognize my close friend, and room-mate, Nicole Evans (an incoming CCM transfer student) for helping me understand different terminology and aspects of music as well as answering clarifying questions. Her knowledge of music and discussions on ideas for use cases was particularly helful in understading the user's perspective. 
